# NetBIOS - 137,138,139

## NetBIOS

Ports and their purpose:

* Name service for name registration and resolution (ports: 137/udp and 137/tcp).
* Datagram distribution service for connectionless communication (port: 138/udp).
* Session service for connection-oriented communication (port: 139/tcp).

## Enumeration of Name Service (137/UDP|TCP)

Enumerating a NetBIOS service you can obtain the names the server is using and the MAC address of the server:

```
sudo nbtscan -r 10.10.10.0/24
sudo nmblookup -A <IP>
sudo nmap -sU -sV --min-rate 1000 --script nbstat.nse -p137 -Pn -n <IP>
```

## Datagram Distribution Service

The Datagram Distribution Service is sent via UDP. If a datagram is being sent to a specific NetBIOS name, it is transmitted with a "Direct Unique" or "Direct Group" packet; if it is being sent to all NetBIOS names on the network, it is sent with a "Broadcast" packet.

```
PORT    STATE         SERVICE     VERSION
138/udp open|filtered netbios-dgm
```

## Session Service

Session mode allows two computers to create a connection for a "conversation," handles larger messages, and detects and recovers errors.

Packets are exchanged to establish sessions. The computer attempting to establish the session tries to connect to port 139 on the computer with which the session will be established. If the connection is established, the computer establishing the session sends a "Session Request" packet over the connection containing the NetBIOS names of the establishing program and the NetBIOS name to which the session is to be established. The computer with which the session is to be established will respond with either a "Positive Session Response" indicating that a session can be established or a "Negative Session Response" indicating that no session can be established (either because that computer isn't listening for sessions being established to that name or because there are no resources available to establish a session to that name).

Session Message Packets are used to transfer data during an established session.

```bash
PORT      STATE SERVICE      VERSION
139/tcp   open  netbios-ssn  Microsoft Windows netbios-ssn
```

**Read SMB to enumerate this service:**

{% embed url="https://nozerobit.gitbook.io/hacknotes/services/pentesting-smb-139-445" %}

****

****

****



